Added ⚡️ content to `Private Key Management` > `External Signing Devices` (#555)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/private-key-management/external-signer.md

image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-preview.png
redirect_from:
 - /guide/private-key-management/external-signing-device/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
---

<!--

Editor's notes

Description of what an external signers are and what the scheme consists of.

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/community/file/888680264445459448
https://www.figma.com/community/file/995256542920917246/BDG---Private-key-management-illustrations
https://www.figma.com/file/qr4P17z6WSPADm6oW0cKw2/?node-id=261%3A1837

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Examples of popular external signers."
   width = 1600
   height = 700
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# External signers

> External signers use, store and manage private keys and other sensitive info, such as the users recovery phrase, externally from the users wallet application. The most common external signers used today are hardware wallets. Software only external signing applications also exist, but are less secure than their hardware counterparts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External signers use, store, and manage private keys and other sensitive info, such as the user's recovery phrase, externally from the user's wallet application. The most common external signers used today are hardware wallets. Software-only external signing applications also exist, but are less secure than their hardware counterparts. 
```

> A wallet application that supports external signers can remove the need for the private keys to be store locally by the wallet application. This decreases the risk of theft as the keys can be isolated from the internet and/or a potentially malicious device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wallet application supporting external signers removes the need for storing private keys locally by the wallet application. This decreases the theft risk as the keys can be isolated from the internet and/or a potentially malicious device. 
```

### How it works

<div class="center" markdown="1">

The external signer generates and stores private keys externally, and preferably offline, from the users primary wallet application.

> To sign a transaction, the primary wallet application submits a partially signed bitcoin transaction ([PSBT](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki)) to the external signer. 

Author: ```suggestion
To sign a transaction, the primary wallet application submits a unsigned transaction or a partially signed bitcoin transaction ([PSBT](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki)) to the external signer.
```

> To sign a transaction, the primary wallet application submits a partially signed bitcoin transaction ([PSBT](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki)) to the external signer. 

Reviewer: Is this always the case? I don't think it's how all external signers work? Hardware wallets for example don't use PSBT? They sign a transaction on the internal secure element and spit out the signature?

Author: Not all hardware wallets fully support PSBT yet that is true - though they really should! Coldcard, and Cobo are the only two that fully support it afaic. Pretty much every modern software external signer has full PSBT support though such as Nunchuk and Specter. The signing process doesn't always use a PSBT though - for example signing with a Trezor using Specter is done over USB using their own data structure: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/100145/what-is-the-difference-between-psbt-support-in-coldcard-and-trezor

I'll reword this to make this more clear.

> The external signer then signs the PSBT and sends it back to the primary wallet application. The users primary wallet application now broadcasts this now signed transaction to the Bitcoin network for processing. This process can also happen fully air-gapped using QR codes or memory cards instead of cables or wireless connections, to keep the device offline at all times.

Author: ```suggestion
The external signer then signs the transaction or PSBT and sends it back to the primary wallet application. The users primary wallet application now broadcasts this now signed transaction to the Bitcoin network for processing. This process can also happen fully air-gapped using QR codes or memory cards instead of cables or wireless connections, to keep the device offline at all times.
```

</div>

### Lightning signers

> An experimental type of external signers called Lightning signers that interact with the Lightning network also exist. Like regular external signers, Lightning signers isolate private keys from the users primary wallet application. However, these signers need to remain online and connected 24/7 to the users primary wallet application in order to update payment channel states. These, in effect, have some of the security benefits of regular external signers by isolating private keys from the internet and/or potential malicious device. Learn more [here](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/docs/-/blob/master/README.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lightning signers are an experimental type of external signers interacting with the Lightning network. Like regular external signers, Lightning signers isolate private keys from the user's primary wallet application. However, these signers need to remain online and connected 24/7 to the user's primary wallet application to update payment channel states. These, in effect, have some of the security benefits of regular external signers by isolating private keys from the internet and/or potential malicious device. Learn more [here](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/docs/-/blob/master/README.md). 
```

{% include fact/pros.html %}

- Isolates private key from online and/or potentially malicious devices
- Provides high security if used correctly

{% include fact/close.html %}

{% include fact/cons.html %}

- Purchase of specialized hardware or second device required
- Requires further effort and knowledge to setup correctly
- Still requires a good manual backup for redundancy

{% include fact/close.html %}

### Best practice

#### When to use
- When storing medium to large amounts
- When risk of loss from theft is higher than loss from negligence
- When target audience is likely to be very knowledgeable or motivated to learn good manual backup schemes

#### When not to use

> - When most users are new to bitcoin and unlikely to implement good backup schemes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When most users are new to Bitcoin and unlikely to implement good backup schemes
```

---
layout: guide
title: External signers
description: What External signers are and their role in securing bitcoin.
nav_order: 4
parent: Private key management
permalink: /guide/private-key-management/external-signers/
image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-preview.png
redirect_from:

>  - /guide/onboarding/external-signing-device/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - /guide/private-key-management/external-signing-device/
```

   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signing-device-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Examples of popular external signers."
   width = 1600
   height = 700
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# External signers

External signers use, store and manage private keys and other sensitive info, such as the users recovery phrase, externally from the users wallet application. The most common external signers used today are hardware wallets. Software only external signing applications also exist, but are less secure than their hardware counterparts. 

A wallet application that supports external signers can remove the need for the private keys to be store locally by the wallet application. This decreases the risk of theft as the keys can be isolated from the internet and/or a potentially malicious device. 

### How it works

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signer.jpg"

>    retina = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signer@2x.jpg.jpg"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/private-key-management/external-signers/external-signer@2x.jpg"
```

Reviewer 2: The three icons don't quite match. Different line thicknesses and levels of detail.

Author: Will fix now :)

   alt-text = "Transfer of wallet data between applications"
   width = 400
   height = 300
   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

The external signer generates and stores private keys externally, and preferably offline, from the users primary wallet application.

To sign a transaction, the primary wallet application submits a partially signed bitcoin transaction ([PSBT](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki)) to the external signer. 

> The external signer then signs the PSBT and sends it back to the primary wallet application. The users primary wallet application now broadcasts this now signed transaction to the Bitcoin network for processing. This process can also happen fully air gapped using QR codes or memory cards instead of cables or wireless connections, to keep the device offline at all times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The external signer then signs the PSBT and sends it back to the primary wallet application. The users primary wallet application now broadcasts this now signed transaction to the Bitcoin network for processing. This process can also happen fully air-gapped using QR codes or memory cards instead of cables or wireless connections, to keep the device offline at all times.
```

</div>

### Lightning signers

> An experimental type of external signers called Lightning signers that interact with the Lightning network also exist. Like regular external signers, Lightning signers isolate private keys from the users primary wallet application. However, these signers need to remain online and connected 24/7 to the users primary wallet application in order to update payment channel states. These in effect have some of the security benefits of regular external signers by isolating private keys from the internet and/or potential maliciouis device. Learn more [here](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/docs/-/blob/master/README.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An experimental type of external signers called Lightning signers that interact with the Lightning network also exist. Like regular external signers, Lightning signers isolate private keys from the users primary wallet application. However, these signers need to remain online and connected 24/7 to the users primary wallet application in order to update payment channel states. These, in effect, have some of the security benefits of regular external signers by isolating private keys from the internet and/or potential malicious device. Learn more [here](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/docs/-/blob/master/README.md). 
```
